---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/computer-science/1-2-1-systems-software/1-2-1-systems-software/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---


- # Paging, Segmentation and Interrupts in Computing
	- ### Paging
		- Paging is a memory management scheme that allows a computer's operating system to work with memory more efficiently. It does this by dividing a computer's physical memory into fixed-sized blocks called "pages" and allowing the operating system to store data across multiple pages if needed. When the computer needs to access data from memory, it uses a page table to map the data's location in memory to the corresponding page in physical memory.
	
	- ### Segmentation
		- Segmentation is a memory management technique used by operating systems to divide a computer's primary storage (i.e., RAM) into segments or blocks of memory that can be individually assigned to different programs. This allows each program to have its own dedicated memory space, making it easier to isolate and protect data from other programs.
	
	- ### Interrupts
		- An interrupt is a signal that is sent to a computer's central processing unit (CPU) to indicate that an event has occurred that requires the CPU's attention. When an interrupt is received, the CPU temporarily stops what it is doing and begins executing a special set of instructions called an interrupt handler to deal with the event that has occurred. This allows the CPU to efficiently manage multiple tasks and respond to external events in a timely manner.

	- ### Paging vs. Segmentation
		- Paging and segmentation are similar in that they both involve dividing primary storage into smaller units, but they differ in how they are used. Paging is used to manage data that is transferred between primary and secondary storage, while segmentation is used to manage memory allocation to individual programs.

	- ### Interrupts and Paging/Segmentation
		- Interrupts can be used in conjunction with paging and segmentation to handle events or errors that occur during memory management. For example, if a page fault occurs during paging (i.e., when a program tries to access a page of data that is not currently in primary storage), an interrupt can be triggered to transfer the necessary page from secondary storage to primary storage. Similarly, if a program tries to access memory outside of its allocated segment, an interrupt can be triggered to handle the error.
	


